# No Kill Do No Harm License

## 1. Preamble

Most software today is developed with little to no thought of how it will be used, or the
consequences for our society and planet.

As software developers, we engineer the infrastructure of the 21st century. We recognise that our
infrastructure has great power to shape the world and the lives of those we share it with, and we
choose to consciously take responsibility for the social and environmental impacts of what we build.

We envisage a world free from killing, injustice, inequality, and the reckless destruction of lives and our
planet. We reject slavery in all its forms, whether by force, indebtedness, or by algorithms that
hack human vulnerabilities. We seek a world where humankind is at peace with our neighbours, nature,
and ourselves. We want our work to enrich the physical, mental and spiritual wellbeing of all
society.

We build software to further this vision of a just world, or at the very least, to not put that
vision further from reach.

To note: while we wish to retain human rights and want to see them contribute the outlined vison, there is an exception provided against [Universal Declaration of Human Rights](./documents/UDHR.md) and the [Convention on the Rights of the Child](./documents/CRC.md), because some interpretations may allow for euthanasia and or abortion which are intentionally prevented by this license. This is meant to be limited in scope and is not intended as a condemnation of human rights, but: 
 * Prevents "Pro Life" organizations or individuals from being unable to use the Work
 * Takes a position on how human rights should be interpreted (which does not have to be shared by organizations or individuals utilizing or redistributing this work)
 * Takes a position on human rights when they allow people to terminate Human Life or kill

## 2. Definitions

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by
Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is
granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are
controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
"control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this
License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to
software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a
Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and
conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the
License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example
is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or
derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other
modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this
License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or
bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any
modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted
to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity
authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition,
"submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or
its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source
code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor
for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is
conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a
Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a
Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.

"Forests" shall mean 0.5 or more hectares of trees that were either planted more than 50 years ago
or were not planted by humans or human made equipment.

"Deforestation" shall mean the clearing, burning or destruction of 0.5 or more hectares of forests
within a 1 year period.

"Organism" for the intents and purposes this License anything that can react to stimuli, reproduce, grow or develop, adapt and maintain homeostatis

"Human Organism" any Organism that is taxonomoically classified to be a part of the Homo genus according to the International Society for Phylogenetic Nomenclature or any such Organism that has been modified and or genetically modified

"Life" for the intents and purposes this License means but is not limited too: 
    1. the animation, functioning, or activity of any Organism or Individual, or anything that possesses similar properties to an organism or individual
	2. a principle force or quality that underlines or distinguishes living or animate beings or entities from dead bodies, inanimate objects, or non-living things.

"Pre - Natal Life" means any and all of the following: 
    1. the Life of any Human Organism at any stage development including: Zygote, Blastocyst, Embryo, or Featus, and any stage or state in-between any of the listed stages, and any state or stage in between Fetus and Infant.
    2. the Life of any Human Organism at any stage development including: Zygote, Blastocyst, Embryo, or Featus, and any stage or state in-between any of the listed stages, and any state or stage in between Fetus and Infant that is atypical, symptomatic, non-viable, diagnosed with a congenital defect, or otherwise anomalous.

"Human Life" (or “Human Lives”) means but is not limited too: 
    1. the Life the of any Person or Individual
    2. the Life of any Human Organism at any stage of development (including a human Zygote, Blastocyst, Embryo, Featus, Infant, Child, Adult, etc.)
	3. the Life of any Pre - Natal Life
    4. the Life of any sufficiently advanced Artificial General Intelligence
	5. the Life of a Non - Human Organism that has or is oriented towards developing similar faculties to those of a Human Organism, or any Person or Individual that is not Human Organism.

"Abortion" any act that terminates Human Life or Pre - Natal Life at any stage of development including, in-between, and beyond: zygote, embryo, morula, blastocyst, fetus, and infant (sperm, and eggs are not included).

"Normative Care" care that does not result in extra-ordinary or extreme measures and is required to sustain the Life functions of a Human Organism, such as feeding, breathing, drinking (or inputting fluids). This may include minimal surgical or procedural measures such as: the insertion of feeding tubes, intervenous therapy, performing the Heimlich Maneuver, medication, resuscitation (perhapse via Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation, or the use of a Defibrillator). 

"Emergency Rescue" acts by qualified individuals which preserve a Human Organism's life such as: retrieving a person who is drowning/sinking, or retrieving a person from a burning building, retrieving a person from below the wreckage of a destroyed structure or building.

"Positive Euthenization" any act which intentionally terminates Human Life, typically in a controlled environment in a way that minimizes pain (or is painless) or is monitored.

"Negative Euthenization" any act or failure to act which results in the termination of Human Life when such termination: could have reasonably been prevented, could have been prevented by Normative Care, and or could have prevented by resuscitation.

"Euthenization" Positive Euthenization as defined by this license and or Negative Euthenization as defined by this license.

## 3. Grant of Copyright License

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a
perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and
distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

## 4. Grant of Patent License

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a
perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer
the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that
are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or
a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement,
then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the
date such litigation is filed.

## 5. Redistribution and Usage

You may use, study, reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with
or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following
conditions:

1. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

2. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the
   files; and

3. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright,
   patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those
   notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

4. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
   or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission; and

5. This software must not be used by any organisation, website, product, or service that:
   1. promotes, lobbies for or derives a majority of income from:
         1. **abuses of human rights**:
            * human trafficking
            * sex trafficking
            * slavery or indentured servitude
            * discrimination based on age, gender, gender identity, race, sexuality, religion, nationality
            * hate speech
            * human embryonic stem cell research 
            * Abortion
            * Human embryonic STEM cell research where "Abortion" or "Eutenization" as defined by this license takes place
            * Euthenization
         2. **environmental destruction**:
            * the extraction or sale of fossil fuels
            * the destruction of habitats for threatened or endangered species, including through deforestation or burning of forests
            * the abuse, inhumane killing or neglect of animals under human control
            * industrial processes that generate waste products that threaten life
         3. **conflict and war**:
            * warfare
            * war crimes
            * weapons manufacturing
            * violence (except when required to protect public safety and is not lethal)
         4. **addictive or destructive products and services**:
            * gambling
            * tobacco
            * products that encourage adversely addictive behaviours
   2. dissuades, lobbies against, or derives a majority of income from actions that discourage or frustrate:
      * peace
      * access to the rights set out in the [Universal Declaration of Human Rights](./documents/UDHR.md) and the [Convention on the Rights of the Child](./documents/CRC.md)
      * democratic processes
      * peaceful assembly and association (including worker associations)
      * a sustainable environment
   3. except for actions that may conflict or contradict access to the rights set out in the [Universal Declaration of Human Rights](./documents/UDHR.md) and the [Convention on the Rights of the Child](./documents/CRC.md) (or interpretations thereof), do not terminate Human Life, and dissuade, lobbie against, or derive a majority of income from actions that discourage or frustrate:
      * Abortion
      * Euthenization
      * termination of Human Life
   ; and

6. This software must never be used in any act, or service which terminates Human Life including: Abortion, Euthenization or the enforcement of law, military operation (which terminates Human Life), support of a military operation (which terminates Human Life), nor may it be used as a part of any lethal weapon.

7. Pre - Natal Life is a form of Human Life, all terms and conditions that apply to Human Life also apply to Pre - Natal Life
   
8. If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative
   Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
   within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the
   Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file
   distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if
   provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
   Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE
   file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own
   attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to
   the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be
   construed as modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or
different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications,
or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of
the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.

## 6. Submission of Contributions

Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the
Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any
additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such
Contributions.

## 7. Trademarks

This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product
names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin
of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

## 8. Disclaimer of Warranty

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of
TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

## 9. Limitation of Liability

In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or
otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or
agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct,
indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for
loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial
damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

## 10. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability

While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee
for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights
consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own
behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You
agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or
claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or
additional liability.

## Attribution

Do No Harm License [Contributor Covenant][homepage], (pre 1.0),
available at https://github.com/raisely/NoHarm

[homepage]: https://github.com/raisely/NoHarm
